docs(policy)_: Introduction of policy zero (#6165)
status-im/status-go: _docs/policies/000-submitting-policy.md

# Purpose

> Policy Zero establishes the foundational guidelines for creating, reviewing, and maintaining policies in the `status-go` GitHub repository. This policy aims to create a collaborative, inclusive, and transparent process for defining repository policies, specifically regarding how developers engage with and contribute to the repository.

Reviewer: I much prefer text wrapping between the 60-75 char limit for text (not code). There's probably good research out there about how readability is affected because I remember reading about this a long time ago. It's also how many famous tools format their manuals. I'm being picky about this point, but I understand this is not a problem for many.

Author: No be picky. Please. I will format this.

I always went with 80 chars (obviously not in this case), but Baymard says I'm wrong https://baymard.com/blog/line-length-readability 

<img width="806" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-12 at 15 42 23" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4d01982c-2107-47fb-b077-34c17b0a08d5" />

> # Submitting a Policy Proposal

Reviewer 2: I believe it would be helpful to include the justification for the given policy as well.

- A policy MUST include a brief justification, addressing the question: "Why has this policy been introduced?"

Author: That is an excellent point and I will add that now

Author: I actually added this to my latest pending commit.

- Any individual MAY propose a new policy.

> - Policy ideas SHOULD be discussed with Core Contributors (CCs) and other community members.

Reviewer 2: That's not very precise and a bit redundant to "Policy PRs SHOULD be reviewed by as many Core Contributors (CCs) as possible.". I would allow people to submit a policy PR as a forum for discussion.

Reviewer 2: After second though, as it uses SHOULD, I think it is fine to keep it :thinking:

- All policies MUST be submitted to the `_docs/policies` directory as a pull request (PR) within the `status-go` repository.

> - All policies MUST be in Markdown format

Reviewer: Missing period.

> - Policy file names MUST follow [File name conventions for ADRs](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture-decision-record?tab=readme-ov-file#file-name-conventions-for-adrs), e.g. `000-submitting-policy.md`

Reviewer 3: I'm very sorry for this confusion, which I brought to you.

The `000-` prefix doesn't follow the ADR standard. It was my proposal if we should use the counter prefix or go with full accordance with ADR. 

At this point I believe it's better to follow the standard and not make up our own one 😄 

```suggestion
- Policy file names MUST follow [File name conventions for ADRs](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture-decision-record?tab=readme-ov-file#file-name-conventions-for-adrs), e.g. `submitting-policy.md`
```

Author: Ok that is fine, I will be happy to make these changes.

# Review and Approval Process

> The core function of the review and approval process for policy PRs is to reach consensus on any issue and to reflect the range of perspectives within the `status-go` community. Policy submissions must aim to achieve broad community support and give key stakeholders a chance to gain context of the policy requirements.

Reviewer: What is the meaning of "status-go community"? I ask that because I see status-go as simply a repo, a very important one, but still a repo. A community means a lot more. I don't see myself as a member of a status-go community, I see myself as part of the Status community.

Author: That is a very fair question. I wanted to capture the meaning of "all contributors that want a voice about the way the repo works, that includes core contributors and external contributors."

@ilmotta What do you think about this:

```suggestion
The core function of the review and approval process for policy PRs is to reach consensus on any issue and to reflect the range of perspectives among all contributors who wish to have a voice in how the repository operates, including both core contributors and external contributors. Policy submissions must aim to achieve broad community support and give key stakeholders a chance to gain context of the policy requirements.
```

Reviewer: At least to me, your suggestion is an improvement @Samyoul

I remember seeing a few references to the word _community_ in the policy, apart from this one.

Author: I've addressed this. I've rewritten the sections that mention "community" and refer to "contributors".

> The core function of the review and approval process for policy PRs is to reach consensus on any issue and to reflect the range of perspectives within the `status-go` community. Policy submissions must aim to achieve broad community support and give key stakeholders a chance to gain context of the policy requirements.

Reviewer 3: I still think that this part if redundant. It basically summarises what's described in the README: consensus, transparency and inclusivity.

But let's see what others say.

- Policy PRs SHOULD be reviewed by as many Core Contributors (CCs) as possible.
- Any CC MAY review, approve and / or request changes of a policy proposal PR.
- For any policy PR to be eligible for merging, it:
    - MUST address all feedback provided during the review process.
    - MUST be approved by all team leads (of Status Desktop and Mobile).

>     - MUST be approved by all members of the status-go Guild.

Reviewer: Would be good to explain what is the Guild somewhere else in status-go source or point to another public resource that explains what it is.

Reviewer 3: Thought to write the same thing, but decided not to overcomplicate obvious things 😄 
 But perhaps we could just reference `@status-im/status-go-guild` team on Github

Reviewer: Good idea with the team reference!

Author: Done

    - MUST receive a minimum of six approvals from CCs.

# Policy Amendments and Archival

> Policies can be amended or archived to ensure they remain relevant and aligned with community needs.

Reviewer 3: Same here, this summarises (therefore duplicates) what's written further. 
But this one is so short and constructive that I actually even like it a bit 😄

Author: Ok, I'm going to leave the section introductions in this case.
